# Changelog
All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](http://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/)
and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](http://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## Unreleased

### Added

- Add `POST /api/v1/wallet/scan` API to scan wallet addresses ahead, default scan number is `20`.
- Add `CLI walletScanAddresses` command to scan wallet addresses ahead.
- Add `GET /api/v2/transactions` API to get transactions with pagination.
- Add `-max-incoming-connection` flag to control the maximum allowed incoming connections.
- Add `qr_uri_prefix` field to `/api/v1/health` endpoint.

### Fixed

### Changed

- Add `src_txid` to verbose transaction inputs, affected apis: `/api/v1/transaction`, `/api/v1/transactions` `/api/v1/block` `/api/v1/blocks` `/api/v1/pendingTxs`
- Add `calculated_hours` to `/api/v1/uxout` and `/api/v1/address_uxouts`.
- Update DB version only when DB structure is changed.
- Add go version of go1.14 support
- Changes on the CLI command `walletCreate`:
    * Replaced the first argument of wallet filename with label, which is the wallet name 
    that will be shown in GUI. The wallet filename will be generated by node automatically 
    when calling the API. Since the label is acquired from the first argument, the label/-l flag is removed.
    * The command result will be consistent with the API response of `/api/v1/wallet/create`.
    * Encrypt the wallet by default, you will be prompted to enter a password to encrypt the wallet.
    * Remove flags of `coin/c` `crypto-type/x`.
    * Add flag `scan` to scan ahead addresses in the wallet that have history transactions.
- CLI command walletKeyExport -p flag is replaced with --path, and -p will be used as a shorthand of --password.
- CLI command `encryptWallet/decryptWallet` will only return none-sensitive data. Data like the seed, secrets and private keys will no longer be returned.
### Removed

## [0.27.0] - 2019-11-26

### Added

- Add `createRawTransactionV2` CLI command, which calls the API of `/wallet/transaction` to create the transaction and can create then unsigned transaction. Once the API's performance issue has been fixed, we will replace the `createRawTransaction` with it.
- Add `signTransaction` CLI command to sign transaction.
- Do windows electron builds by travis and abandon the appveyor
- Migrate `skycoin.net` to `skycoin.com`
- Migrate project path to `SkycoinProject/skycoin`
- Use transaction history when scanning wallet addresses, instead of the current address balance
- Document the daemon's CLI options
- Add the ability to save transaction notes
- Add CLI `encodeJsonTransaction` command to retrieve raw transaction given its JSON representation
- Add `package bip44`, implementing the bip44 spec https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0044.mediawiki
- Codesign daemon and standalone binaries
- Add a guided method for entering the seeds in the GUI
- Add new wallet type `collection` for wallets that are an arbitrary collection of private keys, rather than generated from a seed
- Add new wallet type `bip44` for hierarchical deterministic (HD) wallets obeying the bip44 protocol.
  The Skycoin bip44 `coin` number is `8000`.
  `bip44` wallets avoid address reuse, generating a new change address for each transaction.
  Affects APIs are `POST /api/v1/wallet`, `GET /api/v1/wallets`, `GET /api/v1/wallet`, `POST /api/v1/wallet/seed` and `POST /api/v1/wallet/recover`.
  Refer to the [API documentation](./src/api/README.md) for API changes.
  `bip44` wallets support bip39 "seed passphrases".
  More details are explained in https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/wiki/Wallet-File-Formats-and-Types
- `cli walletCreate` support for `bip44` wallets added
- Add `bip44_coin` field to `GET /api/v1/health` `fiber` params
- Add the "bulk send" option to the GUI advanced form
- Add `cli walletKeyExport` command to export `xpub`, `xprv`, `pub` and `prv` key from a `bip44` wallet
- Add `xpub` type wallet, which can generate addresses without exposing private keys
- Add `block_publisher` flag to `/api/v1/health`
- Add `no_broadcast` option to `POST /api/v1/injectTransaction` to disable broadcast of the transaction. The transaction will only be added to the local pool.
- Add `cli distributeGenesis` command to split the genesis block into distribution addresses when setting up a new fiber coin

### Fixed

- #7, #162, corrupted file in ~/.skycoin/data/ dir makes the desktop wallet show ERROR #1.
- #87, can not run web gui from skycoin docker image.
- #2287 A `Content-Type` with a `charset` specified, for example `application/json; charset=utf-8`, will not return an HTTP 415 error anymore
- Fix `fiber.toml` transaction verification parameters ignored by newcoin
- #2373 Fix and clean-up further panics with various `skycoin-cli` commands (lastBlocks, checkdb) which were not correctly handling arguments.
- #2442 Reset the "trusted" flag to false for all peers on load, before registering default hardcoded peers in the peerlist
- #26 Add additional database corruption checks in ResetCorruptDB to detect encoder ErrBufferUnderflow and ErrMaxLenExceeded

### Changed

- `type` is now a required parameter for `POST /api/v1/wallet`. `type` can be `deterministic`, `bip44` or `xpub`.
- Add `display_name`, `ticker`, `coin_hours_display_name`, `coin_hours_display_name_singular`, `coin_hours_ticker`, `explorer_url` to the `/health` endpoint response
- `cli addPrivateKey` will only work on a `collection` type wallet. Create one with `cli walletCreate -t collection`
- Don't print the wallet in the terminal after `cli encryptWallet` or `cli decryptWallet`
- Remove `WALLET_DIR` and `WALLET_NAME` envvars from the `cli` tool. Commands which need to operate on a wallet file accept the wallet file on the command line instead.
- Now the modal window for showing QR codes in the GUI allows to request specific amounts of coins, as in mobile wallets. This changes did no include the ability to read QR codes or URLs.

### Removed

- Remove `-arbitrating` option from the daemon CLI options
- Remove `-print-web-interface-address` option from the daemon CLI options
- Remove `cli walletDir` command

## [0.26.0] - 2019-05-21

### Added

- When sending coins in the UI, the user can choose to send in SKY, or the equivalent amount of SKY in USD
- Add the option for changing the language of the GUI.
- Add Spanish and Simplified Chinese language options
- Add genesis block hash in `INTR` message
- Add `bip32` package for preliminary HD wallet support
- Add CLI `checkDBDecoding` command to verify the `skyencoder`-generated binary decoders match the reflect-based decoder
- Add CLI `addresscount` command to return the count of addresses that currently have unspent outputs (coins) associated with them.
- Add `-max-inc-msg-len` and `-max-out-msg-len` options to control the size of incoming and outgoing wire messages
- Add `-disable-header-check` flag to disable Host/Origin/Referer header checks for the node APIs
- Add `header_check_enabled` parameter in the `/health` endpoint response
- Add `unsigned` option to `POST /api/v1/wallet/transaction` to create unsigned transactions from a wallet
- Add `unsigned` option to `POST /api/v2/transaction/verify` for verifying an unsigned transaction
- Add `POST /api/v2/wallet/transaction/sign` to sign an unsigned transaction with a wallet
- Add `POST /api/v2/transaction` to create an unsigned transaction from addresses or unspent outputs without a wallet
- Add `/api/v2/data` APIs for transaction notes and generic key-value storage.
- Update `/metrics` endpoint to add metrics from `/health`: `unspent_outputs`, `unconfirmed_txns`, `time_since_last_block_seconds`, `open_connections`, `outgoing_connections`, `incoming_connections`, `start_at`, `uptime_seconds`, `last_block_seq`.
- Add to the GUI the ability to choose specific unspent outputs to spend

### Fixed

- Return a v2-style error for disabled API endpoints
- #2172 Fix electron build failure for linux systems
- Don't send wire protocol messages that exceed the configured 256kB limit, which caused peers to disconnect from the sender
- #2348 Fix panic in `skycoin-cli` `transaction` command if no (zero) arguments are passed. Exactly one argument is expected.

### Changed

- Duplicate wallets in the wallets folder will prevent the application from starting
- An empty wallet in the wallets folder will prevent the application from starting
- Use [`skyencoder`](https://github.com/skycoin/skyencoder)-generated binary encoders/decoders for network and database data, instead of the reflect-based encoders/decoders in `cipher/encoder`.
- Add `/api/v1/resendUnconfirmedTxns` to the `WALLET` API set
- In `POST /api/v1/wallet/transaction`, moved `wallet` parameters to the top level of the object
- Incoming wire message size limit increased to 1024kB
- Clients restrict the maximum number of blocks they will send in a `GiveBlocksMessage` to 20
- `POST /api/v2/wallet/seed/verify` returns an error if the seed's checksum is invalid
- Increase the detail of error messages for invalid seeds sent to `POST /api/v2/wallet/seed/verify`
- Move package `github.com/skycoin/skycoin/src/cipher/go-bip39` to `github.com/skycoin/skycoin/src/cipher/bip39`
- The `Content-Security-Policy` header was modified to make it stricter
- Update `INTR` message verify logic to reject connection if blockchain pubkey not matched or provided
- Change the coinhour burn rate to 10%

### Removed

- `/api/v1/explorer/address` endpoint (use `GET /api/v1/transactions?verbose=1` instead). See https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/blob/develop/src/api/README.md#migrating-from--api-v1-explorer-address
- The unversioned REST API (the `-enable-unversioned-api` is removed, prefix your API requests with `/api/v1` if they don't have an `/api/vx` prefix already). See https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/blob/develop/src/api/README.md#migrating-from-the-unversioned-api
- JSON-RPC 2.0 interface (this is no longer used by the CLI tool, and the REST API supports everything the JSON-RPC 2.0 API does). See https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/blob/develop/src/api/README.md#migrating-from-the-jsonrpc-api
- `/api/v1/wallet/spend` endpoint (use `POST /api/v1/wallet/transaction` followed by `POST /api/v1/injectTransaction` instead). See https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/blob/develop/src/api/README.md#migrating-from--api-v1-spend
- Remove shell autocomplete files

## [0.25.1] - 2019-02-08

### Added

- Add CLI `addressTransactions` command
- Add `/api/v2/wallet/seed/verify` to verify if seed is a valid bip39 mnemonic seed
- Filter transactions in the History view in the UI

### Fixed

- `/api/v1/health` will return correct build info when running Docker containers based on `skycoin/skycoin` mainnet image.
- #2083, Windows desktop wallet sometimes shows "Error#1" on start

### Changed

- Extend URI specification to allow plain addresses (i.e. without a `skycoin:` prefix)
- Switch `skycoin-cli` from `urfave/cli` to `spf13/cobra`.
  Now all options of a cli command must only use `--` prefix instead of a mix of `--` and `-` prefixes.
  `-` prefix is only allowed when using shorthand notation.
- Use an optimized `base58` library for faster address decoding and encoding.
- `/api/v1/injectTransaction` will return 400 error for invalid transactions.

### Removed

- Remove libskycoin source code. Migrated to https://github.com/skycoin/libskycoin

## [0.25.0] - 2018-12-19

### Upcoming deprecated method removal notice

In the v0.26.0 these features and functions will be removed.  If you have a need for any of these features, let us know.

- JSON-RPC 2.0 interface (this is no longer used by the CLI tool, and the REST API supports everything the JSON-RPC 2.0 API does). See https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/blob/develop/src/api/README.md#migrating-from-the-jsonrpc-api
- `/api/v1/wallet/spend` endpoint (use `POST /api/v1/wallet/transaction` followed by `POST /api/v1/injectTransaction` instead). See https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/blob/develop/src/api/README.md#migrating-from--api-v1-spend
- The unversioned REST API (the `-enable-unversioned-api` option will be removed, prefix your API requests with `/api/v1`). See https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/blob/develop/src/api/README.md#migrating-from-the-unversioned-api
- `/api/v1/explorer/address` endpoint (use `GET /api/v1/transactions?verbose=1` instead). See https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/blob/develop/src/api/README.md#migrating-from--api-v1-explorer-address

### Notice

Nodes v0.23.0 and earlier will not be able to connect to v0.25.0 due to a change in the introduction packet message.

Nodes v0.24.1 and earlier will not be able to connect to v0.26.0 due to a similar change.

Make sure to upgrade to v0.25.0 so that your node will continue to connect once v0.26.0 is released.

### Added

- Add `-csv` option to `cli send` and `cli createRawTransaction`, which will send coins to multiple addresses defined in a csv file
- Add `-disable-default-peers` option to disable the default hardcoded peers and mark all cached peers as untrusted
- Add `-custom-peers-file` to load peers from disk. This peers file is a newline separate list of `ip:port` strings
- Add `user_agent`, `coin`, `csrf_enabled`, `csp_enabled`, `wallet_api_enabled`, `unversioned_api_enabled`, `gui_enabled` and `json_rpc_enabled`, `coinhour_burn_factor` configuration settings and `started_at` timestamp to the `/api/v1/health` endpoint response
- Add `verbose` flag to `/api/v1/block`, `/api/v1/blocks`, `/api/v1/last_blocks`, `/api/v1/pendingTxs`, `/api/v1/transaction`, `/api/v1/transactions`, `/api/v1/wallet/transactions` to return verbose block data, which includes the address, coins, hours and calculcated_hours of the block's transaction's inputs
- Add `encoded` flag to `/api/v1/transaction` to return an encoded transaction
- Add `-http-prof-host` option to choose the HTTP profiler's bind hostname (defaults to `localhost:6060`)
- Add `-enable-api-sets`, `-disable-api-sets`, `-enable-all-api-sets` options to choose which sets of API endpoints to enable. Options are `READ`, `STATUS`, `TXN`, `WALLET`, `PROMETHEUS`, `INSECURE_WALLET_SEED`, `DEPRECATED_WALLET_SPEND`. Multiple values must be comma separated.
- `/api/v1/wallet/spend` is deprecated and requires `-enable-api-set=DEPRECATED_WALLET_SPEND` to enable it. Use `/api/v1/wallet/transaction` and `/api/v1/injectTransaction` instead.
- Add `-host-whitelist` option to specify alternate allowed hosts when communicating with the API bound to a localhost interface
- Add the head block header to the response of `GET /api/v1/outputs`
- Add `"ux_hash"` to block headers in API responses
- Database verification will only be performed once when upgrading to the next version. Verification will not be performed on subsequent upgrades unless necessary. To force verification, use `-verify-db=true`. Note that it is unsafe to downgrade the skycoin node without erasing the database first.
- Add `seqs` parameter to `/api/v1/blocks` to query multiple blocks by sequences
- Add `/api/v2/wallet/recover` to recover an encrypted wallet by providing the seed
- Add HTTP Basic Auth options `-web-interface-username` and `-web-interface-password`. Auth is only available when using `-web-interface-https` unless `-web-interface-plaintext-auth` is also used.
- Go application metrics exported at `/api/v2/metrics` (API set `PROMETHEUS`) in Prometheus format
- Add `/api/v2/wallet/recover` to recover an encrypted wallet by providing the seed
- Add `fiberAddressGen` CLI command to generate distribution addresses for fiber coins
- Coinhour burn factor when creating transactions can be configured at runtime with `USER_BURN_FACTOR` envvar
- Max transaction size when creating transactions can be configured at runtime with `USER_MAX_TXN_SIZE` envvar
- Max decimals allowed when creating transactions can be configured at runtime with `USER_MAX_DECIMALS` envvar
- Daemon configured builds will be available on the [releases](https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/releases) page. The builds available for previous versions are configured for desktop client use.
- `skycoin-cli` builds will be available on the [releases](https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/releases) page.
- A user agent string is sent in the wire protocol's introduction packet
- `-max-connections` option to control total max connections
- `/api/v1/network/disconnect` to disconnect a peer
- Complete support for `cipher` package in `libskycoin` C API.
- Add `coin`, `wallet`, `util/droplet` and `util/fee` methods as part of `libskycoin` C API
- Add `make update-golden-files` to `Makefile`
- Add CLI `richlist` command
- Add `util/droplet` and `util/fee` API's as part of `libskycoin`
- Implement SWIG interfaces in order to generate client libraries for multiple programming languages

### Fixed

- Fix hanging process caused when the p2p listener port is already in use
- Fix exit status of CLI tool when wallet file cannot be loaded
- Fix `calculated_hours` and `fee` in `/api/v1/explorer/address` responses
- Fix `calculated_hours` and `fee` in `/api/v2/transaction/verify` responses for confirmed transactions
- `/api/v1/blocks` and `/api/v1/last_blocks` return `500` instead of `400` on database errors
- `POST /api/v1/wallet` returns `500` instead of `400` for internal errors
- Fix unspent output hashes in the `cli decodeRawTransaction` result
- `POST /api/v1/wallet/newAddress` and `POST /api/v1/wallet/spend` will correctly fail if the wallet is not encrypted but a password is provided
- Return `503` error for `/api/v1/injectTransaction` for all message broadcast failures (note that it is still possible for broadcast to fail but no error to be returned, in certain conditions)
- Fixed autogenerated HTTPS certs. Certs are now self-signed ECDSA certs, valid for 10 years, valid for localhost and all public interfaces found on the machine. The default cert and key are renamed from cert.pem, key.pem to skycoind.cert, skycoind.key
- `/api/v1/resendUnconfirmedTxns` will return `503 Service Unavailable` is no connections are available for broadcast
- #1979, Fix header check to allow `localhost:6420`

### Changed

- Add blockchain pubkey in introduction message, it would close the connection if the pubkey is not matched, but would accept it if pubkey is not provided.
- CLI tool uses the REST API instead of the deprecated webrpc API to communicate with the node
- `cli status` return value is now the response from `GET /api/v1/health`, which changes some fields
- `/api/v1/network/` endpoints will return an empty array for array values instead of `null`
- `/api/v1/blocks` will return an empty array for `"blocks"` instead of `null`
- `/api/v1/blockchain/progress` will return an empty array for `"peers"` instead of `null`
- `go run cmd/skycoin/skycoin.go` will have exit status 1 on failure and exit status 2 on panic
- The deprecated JSON 2.0 RPC interface is disabled by default for all run modes, since it is no longer needed for the CLI tool
- Remove `"unknown"` from the `"status"` field in responses from `/api/v1/explorer/address`, `/api/v1/transaction`, `/api/v1/transactions`
- `cli decodeRawTransaction` output format changed, see the [CLI README](./src/cli/README.md)
- `/api/v1/wallet/spend` is deprecated, disabled by default and requires `-enable-api-sets=DEPRECATED_WALLET_SPEND` to enable it. Use `/api/v1/wallet/transaction` and `/api/v1/injectTransaction` instead.
- Invalid password in `/api/v1/wallet` requests now return `400` instead of `401`
- Replace `cmd/address_gen/` and `cmd/address_gen2` with `go run cmd/cli/cli.go addressGen`
- `cli addressGen` arguments have changed
- `cli generateWallet` renamed to `cli walletCreate`
- `cli generateAddresses` renamed to `cli walletAddAddresses`
- `/api/v1/explorer/address` is deprecated in favor of `/api/v1/transactions?verbose=1`
- `/api/v1/balance`, `/api/v1/transactions`, `/api/v1/outputs` and `/api/v1/blocks` accept the `POST` method so that large request bodies can be sent to the server, which would not fit in a `GET` query string
- Send new `DISC` disconnect packet to peer before disconnecting
- `/api/v1/health` `"open_connections"` value now includes incoming connections. Added `"outgoing_connections"` and `"incoming_connections"` fields to separate the two.
- `run.sh` is now `run-client.sh` and a new `run-daemon.sh` script is added for running in server daemon mode
- `/api/v1/network/connection*` connection object's field `"introduced"` replaced with field `"state"` which may have the values `"pending"`, `"connected"` or `"introduced"`
- `/api/v1/network/connection*` field `"is_trusted_peer"` added to connection object to indicate if the peer is in the hardcoded list of default peers
- `/api/v1/network/connection*` field `"connected_at"`, `"unconfirmed_burn_factor"` and `"unconfirmed_max_transaction_size"` added to connection object
- `/api/v1/network/connections` now includes incoming connections. Filters are added to query connections by state and direction
- `/api/v1/resendUnconfirmedTxns` is now a `POST` method, previously was a `GET` method
- Transactions that violation soft constraints will propagate through the network
- Node will send more peers before disconnecting due to a full peer list
- Refactor CSRF to use HMAC tokens.
- Add transaction verification parameters to the `GET /health` response

### Removed

- Remove `USE_CSRF` envvar from the CLI tool. It uses the REST API client now, which will automatically detect CSRF as needed, so no additional configuration is necessary.  Operators may still wish to disable CSRF on their remote node to reduce request overhead.
- Remove `-enable-wallet-api` and `-enable-seed-api` in place of including `WALLET` and `INSECURE_WALLET_SEED` in `-enable-api-sets`.
- Copies of the source code removed from release builds due to build artifact size

## [0.24.1] - 2018-07-30

### Added

- Add Content-Security-Policy header to http responses

### Fixed

- Fix portable browser version opening to blank page

### Changed

- Increase visor db timeout to 5000 `ms`
- Change `InitTransaction` to accept parameters for distributing genesis coin to distribution wallets

### Removed

## [0.24.0] - 2018-07-06

### Added

- Minimum go version is go1.10
- Add environment variable `DATA_DIR` in CLI
- `USE_CSRF` environment variable for CLI, if the remote node has CSRF enabled (CSRF is enabled by default, use `-disable-csrf` to disable)
- `cli showConfig` command to echo the cli's configuration back to the user
- Option to generate 12/24 word seed when creating new wallet
- libskycoin 0.0.1 released with bindings for cipher/address, cipher/hash, cipher/crypto, cli/create_rawtx
- Add `-version` flag to show node version
- Add transaction verification step to "Send" page
- Add more details about transaction in transaction history
- Add advanced spend UI
- Add CLI `encryptWallet` command
- Add CLI `decryptWallet` command
- Add CLI `showSeed` command
- Add `password` argument to the CLI commands of `addPrivateKey`, `createRawTransaction`, `generateAddresses`, `generateWallet`, `send`
- Support for decoding map values in cipher binary encoder
- Expose known block height of peer in brand new `height` field added in responses of `GET /api/v1/network/connections` API endpoints
- `-verify-db` option (default true), will verify the database integrity during startup and exit if a problem is found
- `-reset-corrupt-db` option (default false) will verify the database integrity during startup and reset the db if a problem is found
- `GET /explorer/address`: add `fee` to transaction objects and `calculated_hours` to transaction inputs
- Test data generator and test suite for verification of alternative `cipher` implementations
- Begin `/api/v2` API endpoints. These endpoints are in beta and subject to change.
- Add `POST /api/v2/transaction/verify` API endpoint
- Add `POST /api/v2/address/verify` API endpoint
- Add `ignore_unconfirmed` option to `POST /api/v1/wallet/transaction` to allow transactions to be created or spent even if there are unspent outputs in the unconfirmed pool.
- Add `uxouts` to `POST /api/v1/wallet/transaction`, to allow specific unspent outputs to be used in a transaction.
- Add Dockerfile in docker/images/dev-cli to build a docker image suitable for development.
- Coin creator tool, `cmd/newcoin`, to quickly bootstrap a new fiber coin
- Add Dockerfile in `docker/images/dev-dind` to build a docker in docker image based on skycoindev-cli.

### Fixed

- Reduce connection disconnects, improves syncing
- Fix #1171, update CLI to support wallet encryption
- Use `bolt.Tx` correctly for read operations
- Docker images for `arm32v5` and `ar32v7` architectures by using busybox as base in docker/images/mainnet/Dockerfile and docker/images/mainnet/hooks/

### Changed

- JSON 2.0 RPC interface (used by the CLI tool) is now served on the same host interface as the REST API, port `6420`. The additional listener has been removed.
- CLI's `RPC_ADDR` environment variable must now start with a scheme e.g. `http://127.0.0.1:6420`, previously it did not use a scheme.
- API response will be gzip compressed if client sends request with 'Accept-Encoding' contains 'gzip' in the header.
- `GET /api/v1/wallet/balance` and `GET /api/v1/balance` now return an address balance list as well.
- API endpoints are prefixed with `/api/v1/`. API endpoints without the `/api/v1/` prefix are deprecated but can be enabled with `-enable-unversioned-api`. Please migrate to use `/api/v1/` prefix in URLs.
- Enable message protocol upgrade
- `change_address` is no longer required in `POST /api/v1/wallet/transaction`. If not provided, `change_address` will default to one of the addresses being spent from.
- In `POST /api/v1/wallet/transaction`, for `auto` type `share` mode requests, if extra coinhours remain after applying the `share_factor` but change cannot be made due to insufficient coins, the `share_factor` will switch to `1.0`.
- Support automatic port allocation of the API interface by specifying port 0
- The web interface / API port is randomly allocated for the precompiled standalone client and electron client released on the website.
  If you are using the CLI tool or another API client to communicate with the standalone client, use `-web-interface-port=6420` to continue using port 6420.
  If the program is run from source (e.g. `go run`, `run.sh`, `make run`) there is no change, the API will still be on port 6420.
- Change number of outgoing connections to 8 from 16
- Transaction history shows transactions between own addresses
- Client will only maintain one connection to the default hardcoded peers, instead of all of them

### Removed

- Remove `-rpc-interface-addr`, `-rpc-interface-port` options.  The RPC interface is now on default port `6420` with the REST API.
- Remove `-rpc-thread-num` option
- Remove `-connect-to` option
- Remove `-print-web-interface-address` option
- Remove support for go1.9

## [0.23.0] - 2018-04-22

### Added

- Add wallet setup wizard
- Add wallet encryption, using chacha20+poly1305 for encryption and authentication and scrypt for key derivation. Encrypted data is stored in the wallet file in a `"secrets"` metadata field
- Add `GET /health` endpoint
- Add `POST /wallet/transaction` API endpoint, creates a transaction, allowing control of spending address and multiple destinations
- Add `POST /wallet/encrypt` API endpoint, encrypts wallet and returns encrypted wallet without sensitive data
- Add `POST /wallet/decrypt` API endpoint, decrypts wallet and returns decrypted wallet without sensitive data
- Add `POST /wallet/seed` API endpoint, returns the seed of an encrypted wallet. Unencrypted wallets will not expose their seeds over the API. Requires `-enable-seed-api` option
- `-enable-seed-api` option to enable `POST /wallet/seed`
- Add `"size"` to block API response data (affects `GET /block`, `GET /blocks` and `GET /last_blocks`)
- Write [specification for skycoin URIs](https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin#uri-specification) (based upon bip21)

### Fixed

- #1309, Float imprecision error in frontend malformed some spend amounts, preventing the spend
- Fix one aspect of sync stalling caused by a 5-second blocking channel write by switching it to a non-blocking write, decreasing timeouts and increasing buffer sizes

### Changed

- `GET /wallet` API endpoint, remove sensitive data from the response, and fix the data format to be the same as `POST /wallet/create`
- `GET /wallets` API endpoint, remove sensitive data from the response
- `POST /wallet/create` API endpoint, add `encrypt(bool)` and `password` argument
- `POST /wallet/newAddress` API endpoint, add `password` argument
- `POST /wallet/spend` API endpoint, add `password` argument
- Change `-disable-wallet-api` to `-enable-wallet-api`, and disable the wallet API by default
- `-launch-browser` is set to false by default
- A default wallet will not be created on startup if there is no wallet. Instead, the wallet setup wizard will run
- Replace [op/go-logging](https://github.com/op/go-logging) with [logrus](https://github.com/sirupsen/logrus)
- Disable JSON-RPC 2.0 interface when running the application with `run.sh` and electron
- Whitespace will be trimmed from the seed string by the frontend client before creating or loading a wallet
- Notify the user when their wallets have unconfirmed transactions
- Return an error when providing a transaction that spends to the null address in `POST /injectTransaction`
- Change accepted `-log-level` values to `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`, `fatal` and `panic` (previously were `debug`, `info`, `notice`, `warning`, `error` and `critical`)
- Default log level is `info`

### Removed

- Remove `"seed"`, `"lastSeed"` and `"secret_key"` in address entries from wallet API responses. A wallet's seed can be accessed through `POST /wallet/seed` only if the wallet is encrypted and the node is run with `-enable-seed-api`
- Remove unused `-logtogui` and `-logbufsize` options

## [0.22.0] - 2018-03-20

### Added

- go1.10 support
- Add Dockerfile
- Add libskycoin C API wrapper
- New wallet UI
- Notify the user when a new version is available
- CLI and GUI integration tests against a stable and live blockchain
- #877, Add `-disable-wallet-api` CLI option
- HTTP API client
- `/richlist` API method, returns top n address balances
- `/addresscount` API method, returns the number of addresses that have any amount of coins
- `/transactions` API method, returns transactions of addresses
- `/wallet/unload` API method, removes the wallet of given id from wallet services

### Fixed

- #1021, remove `SendOr404` and `SendOr500` as they do not work properly due to typed nils
- Add Read, Write and Idle timeouts to the HTTP listener, preventing file descriptor leaks
- Support absolute and relative paths for `-data-dir` option
- Prevent creating transactions whose size exceeds the maximum block size
- Check addition and multiplication uint64 overflow
- Keep trusted peers in the peerlist permanently, even if they are unreachable
- #885, Add `Host` header check to localhost HTTP interfaces to prevent DNS rebinding attacks
- #896, Add CSRF check to wallet API
- Fix base58 address parsing, which allowed leading invalid characters and treated unknown characters as a '1'
- Fix occasional error which causes blockchain progress not to be shown in front-end

### Changed

- #1080, `/wallet/transactions` now returns a proper json object with pending transactions under `transactions` key
- #951, cap cli createRawTransaction and send command coinhour distribution, coinhours are capped to a maximum of receiving coins for the address with a minimum of 1 coinhour
- Upgrade to Angular 5
- Add `total_coinhour_supply` and `current_coinhour_supply` to `/coinSupply` endpoint
- #800, Add entropy parameter to `/wallet/newSeed` endpoint. Entropy can be 128 (default) or 256, corresponding to 12- and 24-word seeds respectively
- #866, Include coins and hours in `/explorer/address` inputs
- Rename cached `peers.txt` file to `peers.json`

### Removed

- Remove `/lastTxs` API endpoint
- Remove `/logs` and log buffering due to possible crash
- Remove `/wallets/reload` endpoint
- Remove deprecated `/api/getEffectiveOutputs`, use `/coinSupply`.

## [0.21.1] - 2017-12-14

### Fixed

- Fix blank page issue in windows gui wallet, which was caused by misusing the flag of -download-peers-list in electron.

## [0.21.0] - 2017-12-10

### Added

- Require transactions to have an input with non-zero coinhours
- Add `-peerlist-size` and `-max-outgoing-connections` CLI options
- Add `-download-peerlist` and `-peerlist-url` CLI options, to get peers from a URL
- For electron clients, download a list of peers from https://downloads.skycoin.com/blockchain/peers.txt by default

### Fixed

- Fix change hours calculation. Previous gave 1/8 to change and destination addresses; now gives 1/4 to each
- #653, the peerlist size was too small and could be easily filled up; default changed to 65535 from 1000

### Changed

- CLI's `walletBalance` and `addressBalance` commands return aggregate balances for confirmed, spendable and expected balances. Coins are formatted as droplet strings. Hours added as strings.
- When splitting an odd number of hours in a spend, give the extra hour to the fee
- Add `block_seq` to `get_outputs` and `/outputs` API response
- Improve UxOut spend selection. Previously, they were spent oldest first. Now they are spent to ensure a non-zero coinhour input and otherwise minimize coinhours.
- `create_rawtx` will try to minimize the number of UxOuts used to create a transaction.
- `/wallet/spend` will try to maximize the number of UxOuts used to create a transaction.
- Update the default peerlist size to 65535 from 1000
- When loading a wallet, 100 addresses will be scanned ahead to find one with a balance

## [0.20.4] - 2017-11-22

### Added

- Add `/logs` api to filter skycoin logs, so that we can add a debug panel to the GUI wallet to show logs

## [0.20.3] - 2017-10-23

### Fixed

- Fix block sync stall (mostly affected Windows users, but any OS was potentially affected)

## [0.20.2] - 2017-10-12

### Fixed

- Fixed Linux .AppImage missing "Category" field
- Clean up electron build script, switch to yarn and remove gulp

## [0.20.1] - 2017-10-12

### Fixed

- Fixed app icon padding

## [0.20.0] - 2017-10-10

### Added

- New wallet frontend in angular4. This is a complete rewrite and fixes many of the old wallet issues.
- New wallet has preliminary support for OTC functionality
- Create `webrpc.Client` for JSON-2.0 RPC calls.
- Add this CHANGELOG.md file.
- Add Installation.md file, with install instructions for go.
- Timelock distribution addresses. The first 25% of the distribution is spendable. After that 25% is spent, a timestamp will be added to the code to enable further distribution.
- Add `/coinSupply` endpoint. Correctly returns total, locked and unlocked coin amounts.
- `testutil` package for common test setup methods.
- `/version` endpoint, which will return the current node version number and the HEAD commit id when build the node
- `-no-ping-log` option to disable ping/pong log output
- Check for invalid block signatures during startup and recreate the database if they are corrupted.
- Add methods for converting fixed-point decimal strings to droplets and vice versa.
- Add `make run`, `make test`, `make lint`, `make check` to `Makefile`

### Changed

- Flag peers as incoming or outgoing.
- Refactor to decouple `wallet` and `visor` package.
- Refactor `cli` package for use as a library.
- `README` improvements.
- Set default wallet's label as "Your Wallet"
- Use BIP32 mnemomic seeds by default in `address_gen`.
- Add `-x` option to `address_gen`, to generate a random base64-encoded 128-bit seed instead of a BIP32 mnemomic seed.
- Add `-v` option to `address_gen` to print all address information (pubkey, seckey, address, seed) to stdout as JSON.
- All API and CLI methods with "coin"-related arguments must be a string and can use decimal notation to specify coin amounts.
- CLI's `walletHistory` command prints amounts as fixed-point decimal strings. Previously, it printed amounts as integers representing whole skycoin amounts, and did not support droplets / fractional skycoins.
- A user is prevented from broadcasting a new transaction with unspent outputs that they have already sent as an unconfirmed transaction.

### Deprecated

- `/api/getEffectiveOutputs` is deprecated in favor of `/coinSupply`.

### Removed

- Old wallet
- `/api/create-address` endpoint (use the `address_gen` tool)

### Fixed

- Wallet folder path loading.
- #371 Fix `/wallet/spend`, will return only when pending transaction is confirmed.
- #443 Fix predicted balance in `/wallet/spend` API call.
- #444 Fix bug in `/blockchain/progress` API call.
- Removed globals in `gui` package that caused race condition with wallet API calls.
- #494 Clean invalid unconfirmed transactions during startup.
- Various race conditions around the bolt.DB blockchain DB
- Missing `strand()` call in `daemon.Visor.AnnounceTxns`.

### Security

## [0.19.1] - 2017-08-26

### Fixed

- #459 dist folder in repo out of date, wallet gui does not load

## [0.19.0] - 2017-07-11

### Added

- Add synchronize indicator when downloading blocks.
- #352 Store unspent pool in db for quick recovery when node restart
- Speed up the time the node start the browser
- Cache unspent pool in memory to speed up query action
- #411 Add button to hide seed
- #380 Move anything with heavy imports into util sub package

### Fixed

- #421 Sort wallet transaction history by time
- #398 Remove seeds from DOM
- #390 Make `go test ./src/...` work
- #383 Error during installation from skycoin source code
- #375 Node can't recovery from zero connections
- #376 Explorer api `/explorer/address` does not return spend transactions
- #373 Block publisher node will be closed if there're no transactions need to execute
- #360 Node will crash when do ctrl+c while downloading blocks
- #350 Wallet name always 'undefined' after loading wallet from seed

[Unreleased]: https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/compare/master...develop
[0.26.0]: https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/compare/v0.25.1...v0.26.0
[0.25.1]: https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/compare/v0.25.0...v0.25.1
[0.25.0]: https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/compare/v0.24.1...v0.25.0
[0.24.1]: https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/compare/v0.24.0...v0.24.1
[0.24.0]: https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/compare/v0.23.0...v0.24.0
[0.23.0]: https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/compare/v0.22.0...v0.23.0
[0.22.0]: https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/compare/v0.21.1...v0.22.0
[0.21.1]: https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/compare/v0.21.0...v0.21.1
[0.21.0]: https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/compare/v0.20.4...v0.21.0
[0.20.4]: https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/compare/v0.20.3...v0.20.4
[0.20.3]: https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/compare/v0.20.2...v0.20.3
[0.20.2]: https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/compare/v0.20.1...v0.20.2
[0.20.1]: https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/compare/v0.20.0...v0.20.1
[0.20.0]: https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/compare/v0.19.1...v0.20.0
[0.19.1]: https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/compare/v0.19.0...v0.19.1
[0.19.0]: https://github.com/skycoin/skycoin/commit/dd924e1f2de8fab945e05b3245dbeabf267f2910
